# How To Use

## Quick Start

In order to add breadcrumb items, you can simply use the `Crumbs` facade in your controller's method:

```php
public function index()
{
    Crumbs::add('/users', 'List of Users');
    
    $users = User::all();
    
    return view('users.index', compact('users'));
}
```

When adding current page, you may use the `addCurrent( $title )` method instead of the simple `add( $url, $title, $params = [] )`:

```php
public function index()
{
    Crumbs::addCurrent('List of Users');
    
    $users = User::all();
    
    return view('users.index', compact('users'));
}
```

If you use route names, just specify it instead of the URL:

```php
public function show(User $user)
{
    Crumbs::add('users.index', 'List of Users'));
    Crumbs::add("{$user->name}'s Profile"); // is the same as 'addCurrent()'
    
    return view('users.show', compact('user'));
}
```

When needed, you may specify route parameters as the third parameter, just as you would with the Laravel's `route()` function:

```php
public function edit(User $user)
{
    Crumbs::add('users.index', 'List of Users'));
    Crumbs::add('users.show', $user->name, $user->id);
    Crumbs::addCurrent($user->name);
    
    return view('users.edit', compact('user'));
}
```

You may also use the helper function `crumbs()`:

``` php
crumbs('/categories', 'Categories')->add('main-category', 'Main Category')->add('Sample Article');
```

## Let's Dig In

### Default and Custom Crumbs Templates

You will need to render the created breacrumbs somewhere in your template. To do so you have two options: `Crumbs::render($view = '')` or the Blade extension `@crumbs` or `@crumbs($view)` which is just a shortcut for this `Crumbs` method.

```html
<div class="column">
    @crumbs
    
    <h1>Welcome!</h1>
</div>
```

The `crumbsView` config from `/config/crumbs.php` is the default template for all your breadcrumb lists. This is what will be used when you just call `@crumbs` with no arguments. The `$view` parameter from above rewrites this option.

### Templates Overview

Crumbs come with several view files for three popular CSS frameworks: Twitter Bootstrap, Foundation and Semantic UI. Each one also includes a microdata variation (`-md` suffix).

```html
<ul class="breadcrumbs">
	@foreach ($crumbs as $crumb)
		<li class="{{ $crumb->active(false, 'current') }} {{ $crumb->disabled('unavailable') }}">
			<a href="{{ $crumb->url }}">
				{!! $crumb->title !!}
			</a>
		</li>
	@endforeach
</ul>
```

Each view template has access to the `crumbs` variable. Each of its items is an instance of `CrumbsItem` class which gives you access to:
- `$url` property
- `$title` property: is unescaped, so you may also use icons in your breadcrumbs (e.g. the home icon).
- `isActive()` method
- `isDisabled()` method
- `active($attr = true, $className = '')` method
- `disabled($className = '')` method

#### `isActive()`
Checks wheter the crumb item is the current page. Return `true` or `false`.

#### `isDisabled()`
Returns true if crumb item's URL is equal to `'#'`.

#### `active()`
If `$attr` is true, returns `class="{active}"`, if false: `{active}`. `{active}` being the active item class defined in the `/config/crumbs.php` file. You may also pass it as a second argument.

#### `disabled()`
Returns the disabled class name defined in the `/config/crumbs.php` file, or you may once again pass it as a second argument.

### Autogenerated Crumbs Items

In the `/config/crumbs.php` file you may find the 'Display Default Crumbs Items' section.

```php
[
    'display_home_page'  => true,
    'display_admin_page' => true,
    'display_both_pages' => false
];
```

What it does is simply adding to the beginning the 'Home' and 'Admin' sections.

```php
Crumbs::add('users.index', 'List of Users'));
Crumbs::addCurrent("{$user->name}'s Profile");
```

Becomes:

```
Home > List of Users > User's Profile
```

Because of the `'display_home_page' => true`. If your current page's URL matches the `*admin*` pattern (which also is configurable), it will replace the 'Home' with 'Admin':

```
Admin > List of Users > User's Profile
```

If `'display_both_pages' => true`, it will use both of them, if they are `true`.

```
Home > Admin > List of Users > User's Profile
```

You may configure the home and admin pages' URLs.

### Page Title

Since 2.1.7 you may use the `Crumbs::pageTitle()` method to output structured title string.

```html
<title>{{ crumbs()->pageTitle() }}</title>
```

It takes uses the Crumbs titles to build a page title.

There is a special configuration option `page_title_separator` in `/config/crumbs.php` where you can change the separator for each item. Default: `' » '`.